Add AWS Firehose loki.source component (#3927)
grafana/agent: docs/sources/flow/reference/components/loki.source.awsfirehose.md

---
title: loki.source.awsfirehose
---

# loki.source.awsfirehose

`loki.source.awsfirehose` receives log entries over HTTP
from [AWS Firehose](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/firehose/latest/dev/what-is-this-service.html)
and forwards them to other `loki.*` components.

The HTTP API exposed is compatible

> with [Firehose HTTP Delivery API](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/firehose/latest/dev/httpdeliveryrequestresponse.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with the [Firehose HTTP Delivery API](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/firehose/latest/dev/httpdeliveryrequestresponse.html).
```

Since the API model that AWS Firehose uses to deliver data over HTTP is generic enough, the same component can be used
to receive data from multiple origins:

- [AWS CloudWatch logs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/firehose/latest/dev/writing-with-cloudwatch-logs.html)
- [AWS CloudWatch events](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/firehose/latest/dev/writing-with-cloudwatch-events.html)
- Custom data through [DirectPUT requests](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/firehose/latest/dev/writing-with-sdk.html)

> The component uses a heuristic to try to decode as much information as possible from each log record, falling back to writing
> to Loki the raw line. The decoding process goes as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The component uses a heuristic to try to decode as much information as possible from each log record, falling back to writing
the raw line to Loki . The decoding process goes as follows:
```

Reverse the order of the words

- AWS Firehose sends batched requests

> - Each individual record is treated individually

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Each record is treated individually
```

> - For `record` received in each request:
>   - If the `record` comes from a [CloudWatch logs subscription filter](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/logs/SubscriptionFilters.html#DestinationKinesisExample), it will be further decoded and each logging event will be written to Loki individually
>   - If not, the whole record is written raw to Loki

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For each `record` received in each request:
  - If the `record` comes from a [CloudWatch logs subscription filter](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/logs/SubscriptionFilters.html#DestinationKinesisExample), it is decoded and each logging event is written to Loki
  - All other records are written raw to Loki
```

> The component exposes some internal labels, available for re-labeling. The following tables describes internal labels available

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The component exposes some internal labels, available for relabeling. The following tables describes internal labels available
```

> The component exposes some internal labels, available for re-labeling. The following tables describes internal labels available
> in records coming from any source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The component exposes some internal labels available for re-labeling. The following tables describe the internal labels available
in records coming from any source.
```

| `__aws_owner`               | The AWS Account ID of the originating log data.                                                                                                                                                     | `111111111111`                                                           |
| `__aws_cw_log_group`        | The log group name of the originating log data.                                                                                                                                                     | `CloudTrail/logs`                                                        |
| `__aws_cw_log_stream`       | The log stream name of the originating log data.                                                                                                                                                    | `111111111111_CloudTrail/logs_us-east-1`                                 |

> | `__aws_cw_matched_filters`  | The list of subscription filter names that matched with the originating log data. The list is encoded as a comma-separated list.                                                                    | `Destination,Destination2`                                               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `__aws_cw_matched_filters`  | The list of subscription filter names that match the originating log data. The list is encoded as a comma-separated list.                                                                    | `Destination,Destination2`                                               |
```

| `__aws_cw_msg_type`         | Data messages will use the `DATA_MESSAGE` type. Sometimes CloudWatch Logs may emit Kinesis Data Streams records with a `CONTROL_MESSAGE` type, mainly for checking if the destination is reachable. | `DATA_MESSAGE`                                                           |

> See [Examples](#example) for a full example configuration on how to enrich each log entry with these labels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [Examples](#example) for a full example configuration showing how to enrich each log entry with these labels.
```

## Usage

```river
loki.source.awsfirehose "LABEL" {
    http {
        listen_address = "LISTEN_ADDRESS"
        listen_port = PORT 
    }
    forward_to = RECEIVER_LIST
}
```

> The component will start HTTP server on the configured port and address with the following endpoints:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The component will start an HTTP server on the configured port and address with the following endpoints:
```

- `/awsfirehose/api/v1/push` - accepting `POST` requests compatible
  with [AWS Firehose HTTP Specifications](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/firehose/latest/dev/httpdeliveryrequestresponse.html).

## Arguments

`loki.source.awsfirehose` supports the following arguments:

| Name                     | Type                 | Description                                                | Default | Required |
 |--------------------------|----------------------|------------------------------------------------------------|---------|----------|
| `forward_to`             | `list(LogsReceiver)` | List of receivers to send log entries to.                  |         | yes      |

> | `use_incoming_timestamp` | `bool`               | Whether or not to use the timestamp received from request. | `false` | no       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `use_incoming_timestamp` | `bool`               | Whether or not to use the timestamp received from the request. | `false` | no       |
```

The `relabel_rules` field can make use of the `rules` export value from a
[`loki.relabel`][loki.relabel] component to apply one or more relabeling rules to log entries before they're forwarded
to the list of receivers in `forward_to`.

[loki.relabel]: {{< relref "./loki.relabel.md" >}}

## Blocks

The following blocks are supported inside the definition of `loki.source.awsfirehose`:

| Hierarchy | Name     | Description                                        | Required |
 |-----------|----------|----------------------------------------------------|----------|
| `http`    | [http][] | Configures the HTTP server that receives requests. | no       |
| `grpc`    | [grpc][] | Configures the gRPC server that receives requests. | no       |

[http]: #http

[grpc]: #grpc

### http

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/loki-server-http.md" source="agent" >}}

### grpc

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/loki-server-grpc.md" source="agent" >}}

## Exported fields

`loki.source.awsfirehose` does not export any fields.

## Component health

`loki.source.awsfirehose` is only reported as unhealthy if given an invalid configuration.

## Debug metrics

> The following are some of the metrics that are exposed when this component is used. Note that the metrics include labels

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following are some  metrics that are exposed when you use this component. Note that the metrics include labels
```

> The following are some of the metrics that are exposed when this component is used. Note that the metrics include labels
> such as `status_code` where relevant, which can be used to measure request success rates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following are some of the metrics that are exposed when this component is used. 
{{% admonition type="note" %}}
The metrics include labels  such as `status_code` where relevant, which you can use to measure request success rates.
{{%/admonition %}}
```

- `loki_source_awsfirehose_request_errors` (counter): Count of errors while receiving a request.
- `loki_source_awsfirehose_record_errors` (counter): Count of errors while decoding an individual record.
- `loki_source_awsfirehose_records_received` (counter): Count of records received.
- `loki_source_awsfirehose_batch_size` (histogram): Size (in units) of number of records received per request.

## Example

This example starts an HTTP server on `0.0.0.0` address and port `9999`. The server receives log entries and forwards
them to a `loki.write` component. The `loki.write` component will send the logs to the specified loki instance using
basic auth credentials provided.

```river
loki.write "local" {
    endpoint {
        url = "http://loki:3100/api/v1/push"
        basic_auth {
            username = "<your username>"
            password_file = "<your password file>"
        }
    }
}

loki.source.awsfirehose "loki_fh_receiver" {
    http {
        listen_address = "0.0.0.0"
        listen_port = 9999
    }
    forward_to = [
        loki.write.local.receiver,
    ]
}
```

> As another example, if we are receiving records that are originated from a CloudWatch logs subscription, we can enrich each
> received entry by re-labeling internal labels. The following configuration builds upon the one above, but keeps the origin
> log stream and group as `log_stream` and `log_group` respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As another example, if you are receiving records that originated from a CloudWatch logs subscription, you can enrich each
received entry by relabeling internal labels. The following configuration builds upon the one above but keeps the origin
log stream and group as `log_stream` and `log_group`, respectively.
```
